David Cameron
Peace in Europe could be at risk if Britain votes to leave the European Union, David Cameron has warned.
The UK has regretted "turning its back" on Europe in the past, the PM said, arguing the European Union has "helped reconcile" countries and maintain peace.
Mr Cameron asked if leaving the union is a "risk worth taking".
Leave campaigners said Nato, not the EU, kept the UK safe and accused Downing Street of "losing the plot".
Vote Leave said: "During the renegotiation the PM said he 'ruled nothing out'. Now he thinks leaving the EU would lead to war. What changed?"
Follow the latest developments on our live page
Reality check: Security and the EU
The UK's EU vote: All you need to know
Despite his security warning, Mr Cameron defended his decision to call the referendum, telling the BBC: "You shouldn't try to hold an independent sovereign nation in an organisation against its will."
There are just over six weeks to go until the 23 June referendum which will decide whether Britain remains in or leaves the EU.

Later Boris Johnson, who wants the UK to leave the EU, will make a speech on the "cosmopolitan case for Brexit".
Mr Johnson - now free from his role as London mayor - will begin a battle bus tour of the country on behalf of the Leave campaign later this week.
The major speeches - from the most high-profile figures on both sides of the campaign - come as the referendum campaign intensifies, following last week's elections.
Mr Cameron, who was introduced by former Labour foreign secretary David Miliband, argued the EU - with Britain in it - had helped bring together countries that had been "at each others' throats for decades".
He warned the peace and stability Europe has enjoyed in recent years could not be guaranteed, saying leaving risked "the clock being turned back to an age of competing nationalism in Europe".
Boris Johnson speaking at a Vote Leave event
Image caption
Ex London mayor Boris Johnson will also make a major speech on Europe later
While Europe has largely been at peace since 1945, Mr Cameron said it was barely two decades since the Bosnian war while, more recently, Russia has been at war with Georgia and Ukraine.
"Can we be so sure that peace and stability on our continent are assured beyond any shadow of doubt? Is that a risk worth taking? I would never be so rash as to make that assumption," he said.
Mr Cameron argued "isolationism has never served this country well".
David Miliband
Image caption
Ex-Labour foreign secretary David Miliband introduced David Cameron
He ranked 2016 alongside other major events in European history, including the Spanish Armada in 1588, the battles of Blenheim and Waterloo in 1704 and 1815 respectively, the two world wars, as well as the fall of the Berlin Wall.
"The truth is this: what happens in our neighbourhood matters to Britain," the PM added.
"That was true in 1914, in 1940 and in 1989. Or, you could add 1588, 1704 and 1815... And if things go wrong in Europe, let's not pretend we can be immune from the consequences."
Vote Leave pointed to analysis by the Historians for Britain group, which described the suggestion the EU had prevented wars as "groundless" and "historically illiterate".
It comes after former MI6 boss Sir John Sawers warned leaving the EU would make the UK "less safe".
He said the UK would be shut out of decisions on the "crucial" issue of data sharing.
However, Justice Secretary Michael Gove - who backs the campaign for the UK to leave the EU - said Sir John was "flat wrong".
Russian armed forces have paraded in central Moscow to mark the 71st anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two.
Some of Russia's latest military hardware was on show, including the RS-24 Yars long-range nuclear missile.
Fighters, heavy bombers and helicopters flew over Red Square, including types combat-tested in Syria, where Russian aircraft are helping government forces.
The march past included Russia's new National Guard.
The National Guard will be armed with new AK-74M machine guns and will be tasked with fighting terrorism and organised crime. Those operations are currently the domain of interior ministry Omon and Sobr special forces.
The parade involved 10,000 military staff, 135 armoured vehicles and 71 aircraft.
Servicewomen marching, 9 May 16Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
Servicewomen marched with the St George's ribbon - a military symbol now fashionable in Russia
Russian troops marching in Moscow rehearsal, 7 May 16Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
Patriotic songs from WW2 featured in the military performance
Su-25 display, 9 May 16Image copyrightReuters
Image caption
Su-25 dive bombers flew in formation over Red Square displaying the Russian tricolour
Victory Day (9 May) is an occasion for the Kremlin to stir up patriotic feelings, as Russians remember the sacrifices made in World War Two.
Russia is ploughing billions of dollars into modernising its military, amid tension with Nato over the conflict in Ukraine. So the annual parade also shows off Russian military might for an international audience.
'National unity'
For the first time a contingent from the Russian space forces joined the parade - officers and cadets from a military academy that produced famous Soviet cosmonauts, including Yuri Gagarin and German Titov.
The heavy armour included new Russian anti-aircraft missile systems - the S-400 and Pantsir - as well as the Iskander medium-range missile. The S-400 is currently protecting Russia's airbase near Latakia in Syria.
Addressing the armed forces, President Vladimir Putin praised the wartime feat of millions of Soviet citizens, who "demonstrated the true strength of our nation, its unity, triumphant spirit and patriotic devotion".
He also called for a "non-bloc system of international security" - reiterating Russian opposition to Nato, without mentioning the Western alliance by name.
There was an acrobatic display by Su-25 dive bombers - planes used by Russia to attack rebels in Syria. The Su-25s trailed clouds of smoke in the Russian red-white-blue colours.
About a fifth of homes have been destroyed in Fort McMurray, a Canadian city ravaged by a huge wildfire, the local MP has told the BBC.
After touring the damage David Yurdiga said it might be years before the city was running normally again.
More than 100,000 residents of the city and surrounding area fled after an evacuation order was issued.
Officials say the fire, now burning for a week, grew more slowly at the weekend than first feared.
Firefighters held key areas and the blaze now covers about 1,610 sq km (620 sq miles) - less than the 1,800 sq km (700 sq miles) estimated on Saturday.
Mr Yurdiga said while most of the city was intact the area was still too dangerous for residents to return home.
"An estimate: 20% of the homes have been burnt, but the majority of homes are standing, no damage at all," Mr Yurdiga said.
"So you know what? It's a lot better than I thought it was."
BBC graphic
In pictures: Canada's devastating wildfire
Odd items evacuees took with them
How wildfires start and how to stop them
'Perfect storm' boosted Alberta fires
Residents flee fire
On Sunday, fire chiefs spoke of getting a "death grip" on the fire, which has been fed by hot weather and tinder dry terrain.
"With a little help from mother nature and a bit of a break in the weather, and all the hard work of all the firefighters we were able to hold most of the line in Fort McMurray," said Alberta wildfire manager Chad Morrison.
But it could be months before the fire is fully brought under control. Officials warned only significant rainfall could fully halt its spread.
Jump media playerMedia player helpOut of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Media captionFort McMurray Fire Captain Adam Bugden: "I've met more heroes in this experience than I ever thought existed"
The fire is being blown east away from communities, but still threatens to cross from Alberta province into neighbouring Saskatchewan.
Air quality warnings have been issued for Saskatchewan and Northwest Territories, with locals advised to close windows and doors due to smoke.
The final evacuations of 25,000 people who headed north from Fort McMurray after the blaze began was completed on Sunday.
Schools in the provincial capital Edmonton are arranging for displaced families to send their children to local schools from Monday.
No deaths or injuries have been reported from the fire, but two people died in traffic accidents during the mass evacuation.
A helicopter tackles a huge wildfire in CanadaImage copyrightReuters
Image caption
Hundreds of firefighters are battling the blaze
An evacuee from a huge wildfire in CanadaImage copyrightReuters
Image caption
It is not yet known when evacuees can return
The fire is expected to be the most expensive natural disaster in Canadian history, with insurance costs alone already running into billions of dollars.
Fort McMurray is in the heart of Canada's oil sands country, and the region has the world's third-largest reserves of oil. Workers at major oil companies have also been evacuated.
As much as a quarter of the country's oil production has been halted by the fire, raising concerns about the effect on the Canadian economy.

BBC correspondent Rupert Wingfield-Hayes and his team are being expelled from North Korea after being detained over their reporting.
Our correspondent, producer Maria Byrne and cameraman Matthew Goddard were stopped by officials on Friday as they were about to leave North Korea.
He was questioned for eight hours by North Korean officials and made to sign a statement.
All three were held over the weekend but have now been taken to the airport.
The BBC team was in North Korea ahead of the Workers Party Congress, accompanying a delegation of Nobel prize laureates conducting a research trip.
The North Korean leadership was displeased with their reports highlighting aspects of life in the capital.
A BBC spokesman said: "We are very disappointed that our reporter Rupert Wingfield-Hayes and his team have been deported from North Korea after the government took offence at material he had filed.
"Four BBC staff, who were invited to cover the Workers Party Congress, remain in North Korea and we expect them to be allowed to continue their reporting."
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Asia
Voters in Davao City, Philippines (9 May 2016)
Hardliner seeks Philippines presidency
9 May 2016
 From the section Asia
Full article Hardliner seeks Philippines presidency
Japanese artist Megumi Igarashi smiles as she speaks to reporters in front of the Tokyo District Court on May 9, 2016.
Japan vagina artist cleared over kayak
9 May 2016
 From the section Asia
Full article Japan vagina artist cleared over kayak
Facebook logo
Facebook wins China trademark case
9 May 2016
 From the section Business
Full article Facebook wins China trademark case
 
More Videos from the BBC
 
Auschwitz: Drone footage from Nazi concentration camp
 
Caitlyn Jenner takes up Donald Trump's toilet offer
 
Hopes of respite in Canada fire crisis
 
Cocaine plane shot down
 
'I've hit 50, let's go for it'
 
Aleppo boy goes viral on social media
Recommended by Outbrain
 
Elsewhere on BBC
 
BBC Future
We looked inside a secret Chinese bitcoin mine
 
BBC Future
The two word games that trick almost everyone
BBC Culture
Why the Brits love drinking
Recommended by Outbrain
You Might Also Like BBC News
Ken Livingstone blamed for Labour seat loss in Jewish area
BBC News
Britons with 'wrong passport' stopped from travelling to US
BBC News
Kim Jong-un's sister Yo-Jong waits in the wings

Esteemed writer and producer Lamont Dozier is one third of the legendary songwriting team Holland-Dozier-Holland. Along with the Holland brothers, Dozier wrote dozens of songs that defined the Motown sound in the 60s, including Heat Wave, Baby Love, How Sweet it is (to be Loved By You) and many others. The title of one his most famous compositions was inspired by a row with his girlfriend - and specifically, as he puts it, "getting caught at an inopportune time with another girl".
"The other girl was known to have quite a temper, this one I was going with. And she came in raising hell. 'I know you got someone in here,' she said.
"She told me she was tired of this, and sick of this and so on. I said, 'Please, you got to believe me, there wasn't nobody here, stop … just stop in the name of love, will you?'
"And I said, 'wait a minute, you hear what I just said?' She said 'what are you talking about?' I said, 'Stop in the name of love… did you hear that cash register?'
"Anyway we got through the day and I went back to the studio and I told Brian [Holland], 'I've got something.' He was sitting at the piano. And Brian, when he had ideas, a lot of them started really slow. He was playing something that sounded just like a funeral march or something. I said, 'I've got something man, but we've got to pick up the beat with it to fit that melody.'
"He said, 'okay, where you going with that?' and I said, 'Stop! in the name of love.'
"And that's how a lot of the stuff was born, through those type of simplistic things."
The Secrets of Songwriting
Hear more on The Secrets of Songwriting, part of the Music Extra series on the BBC World Service - you can listen online here. The complete Sodajerker podcasts are collected on their website here.
Boogie Wonderland
Earth Wind and Fire performing in 2013Image copyrightGetty Images
Image caption
Earth Wind and Fire performing in 2013
There's no mistaking the infectious groove of Earth Wind and Fire's disco classic. But despite its upbeat tune, a scan of the lyrics reveals the song's darker origins, says songwriter Allee Willis.
"We wanted to write a song that used the word 'boogie' because if you were going to write a disco song, it had to have it. But we really did not want to write a typical disco song and so we really had a discussion about that word and what other things could 'boogie' mean besides dance.
"There was a Diane Keaton movie out that year called Looking For Mr Goodbar, where she just goes to the disco every night, because she's such a mess, but when she goes into the club, she loses herself in the frenzy of the club, brings home a different guy every night and eventually comes home with a serial killer.
"No one would think that was the inspiration for Boogie Wonderland, but it was.
"The first verse is very much about someone whose life is just not together: 'Midnight creeps so slowly into hearts of men who need more than they get / Daylight deals a bad hand to a woman who's laid too many bets / The mirror stares you in the face and says, uh, uh, baby, it don't work / You say your prayers but you don't care, you dance to shake the hurt.'
"We wanted a kind of dark sounding verse, which that is and then we wanted the chorus, when you metaphorically enter Boogie Wonderland - which to us was a state of mind where you could forget all your troubles - we really wanted that to be very happy sounding, almost Broadway melodic, which I think we got."
What a Fool Believes
Songwriting legend Kenny Loggins began writing 'What a Fool Believes' before he even met his co-writerImage copyrightGetty Images
Image caption
Songwriting legend Kenny Loggins
This classic Doobie Brothers tune was written by Kenny Loggins and Michael McDonald. It hit number 1 on the US Billboard chart in 1979. Loggins describes how he and McDonald started writing the song together before they even met.
"I had heard from my manager that he had got a call from Michael's manager, that Michael was looking for people to collaborate with him," Loggins recalls.
"He lived in LA and so did I and I went over to his house and I was unloading my guitar out of my trunk and he was in his house with the front door open, going through ideas, you know, just reviewing things that might fit for us to work together on.
"When I got up to the front door, he was playing… because I was already a fan of his, my imagination just kept going and I imagined the part of the song that goes 'She had a place in his life'.
"And so I knock on the door and I say, 'hey, Mike, that thing you were just playing, I think I know how the bridge goes'. And so we were collaborating before we met."
Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox.
